# Quiz for Chapter 2

### 1. Which of the following are attributes of multiple Availabity Zones in a given Region? 
> AZs within a single Region are isolated but connected to each other through low-latency links. <br/> 
> They are fault toleratnt
<br/> 

### 2. Which benefit of cloud computing helps you innovate and build faster? 
> Agility <br/> 

### 3. Which of the following is a true statement about edge locations?
> Edge locations can cache data for your user. <br/> 

### 4. Which of the following is a geographic area containing multiple Availability Zones (AZs)?
> A **Region** is a physical location that is grouped into a larger geographic area for ease of management. A Region is a collection of AZs. <br/> 

### 5. Which cloud deployment model allows you to connect public cloud resources to on-premises infrastructure?
> Applications made available through **hybrid** deployments connect cloud resources to on-premises infrastructure and applications. For example, you might have an application that runs in the cloud but accesses data stored in your on-premises data center. <br/> 

### 6. Which cloud computing model means you are using a complete application or software suite hosted on someone else’s servers?
> **SaaS** provides you access to full applications running on someone else's servers. <br/> 

### 7. Which of the 6 advantages of cloud computing can often allow you to achieve a lower cost than you would get if you built your own infrastructure?
> You're able to stop spending money running and maintaining data centers. <br/> 
> Increase speed and agility. <br/> 
> Benefit from massive economies of scale <br/> 
> Stop guessing capacity <br/> 
> Trade capital expense for variable expense. <br/> 

### 8. Which type of expense includes upfront purchases toward fixed assets?
> Capital expenditures (CapEx) are upfront purchases toward fixed assets.

### 9. Which of the following contains 1 or more physically separated data centers?
> An **Availabilty Zone (AZ)** contains 1 or more data centers that are physically separated.
